# This is Python application for booking rooms in a hotel. The application can be used by:
## <li><ul>1. registered users</ul><ul>2. receptionists</ul><ul>3. administrators</ul></li>

## Each user of the application is described by the following data: </br> - username </br> - password </br> - name </br> - surname </br> - phone number </br> - email address (for example: john@gmail.com) </br> - role (enumeration - it can be: user, receptionist or administrator)

## Registered users also have: </br> - list of his reservations

## Receptionists also have: </br> - ID of the hotel where they are employed

## In addition to users, the application handles the following entities: 
## Room </br> - ID </br> - room number </br> - number of beds </br> - room type (apartment or one room) </br> - air conditioner (is it there or not) </br> - TV (is it there or not) </br> - price per night
## Reservation </br> - ID </br> - list of reserved rooms </br> - date and time of reservation creation (in dd.mm.yyyy format) </br> - hotel check-in date (in dd.mm.yyyy format) </br> - hotel check-out date (in dd.mm.yyyy format) </br> - username of the user who made the reservation </br> - reservation status (reservation not yet started, reservation in progress or reservation completed) </br> - hotel rating
## Hotel </br> - ID </br> - name </br> - address </br> - list of rooms </br> - swimming pool (is it there or not) </br> - restaurant (is it there or not) </br> - average rating

## Functionalities:
## Unregistered user: </br> 1. registration: An unregistered user can register on the system. During registration, the user enters his username, password, phone number, email address, first name and last name (the role "user" is assigned automatically). </br> 2. login: The registered user enters the username and password until he enters the correct combination. After that, the user is logged in and can perform the activities provided by his role. </br> 3. exit from  the application
## Registered user: </br> 1. hotels review: The user can review general information about the hotels (name, address, rating, pool, restaurant). </br> 2. hotel search (search by one criterion (by name, address or rating) or multi-criteria hotel search) </br> 3. display of the best rated hotels (5 hotels with the best rating). </br> 4. creating a reservation: The registered user can reserve a room/rooms for a certain period of time. (it is necessary to choose a hotel first) </br> 5. review of reservations: The registered user can review all his reservations. The user has the possibility to select a group of reservations that he wants to view: previous reservations, reservations that have not yet started or reservations in progress </br> 6. hotel rating: After the completion of the reservation, user can rate the hotel (to rate all types of services in the hotel with one rating) </br> 7. logout: The registered user can log out of the system. After logging out, the application is ready for the next user to log in.
## Receptionist: He has the options of logging in and out of the system, as well as the following options: </br> 1. room search (search by one criterion (by room number, number of beds, room type, air conditioner, TV or price) or multi-criteria room search) </br> 2. reservation search (search by one criterion (by date and time of reservation creation, date and time of check-in/check-out, user who created the reservation or by reservation status) or multi-criteria room search) </br> 3. reporting: The receptionist can create a report on a daily, weekly or monthly basis. The report should contain: list of realized reservations, total number of realized reservations, total number of rooms issued, total earnings for the given period and average rating of the hotel for the given period. </br> 4. overview of added ratings for hotels </br> 5. displaying all rooms </br> 6. displaying all reports
## Administrator: He has available options 2, 3 of unregistered user, option 7 of registered user, as well as the following options: </br> 1. adding new hotel </br> 2. adding new receptionist to hotel </br> 3. hotel updating (adding new rooms/pool/restaurant to existing hotel) </br> 4. hotel deletion </br> 5. receptionist deletion </br> 6. receptionist search (by one criterion (name, surname, username, email address, role or hotel where he is employed) or multi-criteria search for receptionists) </br> 7. overview of added ratings for hotels </br> 8. adding new rooms to existing hotel </br> 9. room deletion
